Let's start creating our first frame of the jump cycle.
So if you remember the first frame of the jump cycle is going to be the crouch where the knees bend
into a crouch the back bends over the arms come up a little bit and that's going to be him getting ready
to jump.
So the first thing I want to do is we want to start off with our frame one of the standing pose for
our base so we're going to start off with the frame one of the standing pose as our base for this frame.
So first what we want to do is selecting our body layer or going to cut out these legs.
Now we want to keep the feet there and you'll see why in a second.
But for now we're just going to select the legs just like so make sure you don't get the feet.
Now the reason why we left the feet is because when you start to crouch down we want the feet to say
in the exact same position.
It's just the legs we want to move next for we want to do is we want to copy these feet so we'll go
copy and then we're going to paste them paste.
Now let's grab these feet and we're going to drag them above all of our other files and folders.
Now using our grab move tool.
Let's go ahead and make sure that those line up with our original fee then we can go ahead and select
the feet on our body layer and we can go ahead and delete those.
So those have been deleted.
Now the reason why we put those feet all the way up at the top of our layer is because it's going to
be quicker and easier to just hold down shift and select all of these folders rather than having to
use control to select each one individually.
So by putting the feet up there it leaves them out of the selection.
So now let's use the Transform Tool and we're going to grab this point right here in the center of our
selection.
Now what this is this is the pivot point.
This is where if we rotate our selection it's going to pivot at this point.
So we want to move that to his hip.
So somewhere in there should be good.
So now we rotate it will rotate at that pivot point
Great we'll go and hit enter next what we want to do is using the grabbing move tool and then using
the arrow keys on our keyboard.
We're going to nudge him down just a little bit so we can begin to squat him down.
But there should be good.
Next what we're going to do is we are going to animate those arms.
So we want those arms to come up just a little bit enough that a spear isn't touching the ground.
So we're going to select this arm layer and the spear folder and then using the transform tool will
go ahead and rotate
about there should be good.
Then let's come up to our body layer and using the Lasso tool.
We're going to go ahead and cut that arm out.
So then let's go ahead and rotate it
and get it in two position.
Now using our paintbrush tool we're going to paint in this empty area.
Make sure you're using the same skin tone awesome.
Now let's go ahead and let's move on to the laig area now first thing I want to do for the legs is since
he's bending over the gravitational pull on his loincloth is going to be different.
So now it's kind of pulling at an angle.
We want it to be pulling straight down.
So what we can do is come into our loincloth folder and we're going to merge our two loincloth layers
together.
So now that's one next what we're going to do is we're going to turn on the Transform Tool.
Then right clicking on our image we're going to come up to where it says warp and just like before.
We're going to work this into the shape we want it.
And in this case we want it to be pretty much the same just hanging.
It's more straight down.
Like so go ahead and hit enter.
Great now we can close down that loincloths folder and let's come back into our body folder.
We're going to add a new layer above our body layer.
And on this layer we can go ahead and start sketching out these new legs.
So I'm going to select a black color and I'm just going to go ahead and start sketching in my legs.
Now just keep in mind that your legs need to connect to these feet at the bottom.
That's the reason why we left him there.
So we're kind of getting a front on view of this leg.
So this leg you're not going to see too much of the band that will be kind of like so then the next
one you're going to see it from the sides you're going to see a lot more bend.
Now we can add a new layer above that then using our Lasso tool.
Let's go ahead and we'll trace those shapes in
then we can fill that in with our skin.
Now let's go ahead and do the next one.
Let's go ahead and turn off our sketch and see how that looks.
Now I don't think that we got enough bend in this left leg.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and redo that leg.
So I'm going to go ahead and use the erase tool to erase that leg away and then I'm going to try it
again.
So I think it needs a little bit more bend
great.
I think something like that will work better.
Now some people get frustrated when you have to change things or redo things tweak colors but it's just
part of the process of creating artwork.
And I wanted to sort of capture that in my courses here on you to me.
So that's why leave some of this stuff in.
OK.
Let's go ahead and put our first frame into our spreadsheet so we'll go ahead and we'll select our speir
folder and select everything up all the way to this top layer that has the feet on it and we're going
to copy those.
Go ahead and merge them now.
We'll select our top layer along with our background layer.
So I'll grab both those layers and drag them into our spreadsheet and go ahead and drop them in.
Now when you're creating the sprite it's all right to have different animations right next to each other
because when you program your game the computer is not going to read all of them it's just going to
read the specific ones that it's been assigned to for a certain task.
So go ahead and put that guy into his grid and we can delete that background.
And let's take this layer that we just brought in there and we're going to drag it out of this folder
because he's not part of the walk right cycle.
So we can go ahead and close the folder out.
Now let's add a new folder and put this guy in it.
And now let's label this guy from what let's label this folder.
Jump right
great.
Now let's not forget to save out this first frame.
So if we need to come back and edit it we can.
So we'll go file save as and we're going to save this in a new folder.
So let's add a new folder and we're going to call this jump cycle
and we'll open that up and save it as EF 1 for frame 1
fantastic.